It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
Most cats adore sardines.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another
The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
